=pod

README for package 'mootm'

Last updated for mootm version 2.0.1

=head1 DESCRIPTION

mootm - moocow's part-of-speech tagger: morphology.

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

=over 4


=item pkg-config

Available from:
http://www.freedesktop.org/software/pkgconfig/



=item flex++ , bison++

Alain Coetmeur's C++ ports of the famous lexer/parser
generator pair, available from:
ftp://iecc.com/pub/file/bison++flex++
or
from the official distribution site of this package.

Tested with flex++-v2.3.8-4 and bison++-v1.21-5.


=item STLport E<gt>= 4.5.3

Available from http://www.stlport.org

Only required for building with gcc-2.x.


=begin comment text

=item libbumble E<gt>= 1.13.5

Origninal sources available from
http://www.bumblebeesoftware.com

You will need a pkg-config metafile (libbumble.pc)
for this requirement
in your PKG_CONFIG_PATH in order to compile this
package -- you can make one yourself, or you can
get one from the official distribution site of
this package.

=end comment text


=item libFSM E<gt>= v0.1.0.6

Currently available only from its original author,
Thomas Hanneforth E<lt>tom@ling.uni-potsdam.deE<gt>.

You will need a pkg-config metafile (libFSM.pc)
for this requirement
in your PKG_CONFIG_PATH in order to compile this
package -- you can make one yourself, or you can
get one from the author of this package.

=begin comment text

the official distribution site of this package.

=end comment text


=item libFSMext E<gt>= v0.0.2

Only needed for libFSM <= v0.1.1.1.
Should be available wherever you got this package.

You will need a pkg-config metafile (libFSMext.pc)
for this requirement
in your PKG_CONFIG_PATH in order to compile this
package -- you can make one yourself, or you can
get one from
the official distribution site of this package.

=back



=head1 INSTALLATION

Issue the following commands to the shell:

 sh ./configure
 make
 make install

See the file INSTALL in the top-level distribution
directory for details.

=head1 BUILD FROM CVS

To build from CVS, you need the GNU utilities
aclocal, automake, autoconf, and libtool.  If
you have these, you can just run the top-level
script:

 sh ./autogen.sh

This will create the 'configure' script and other
necessary build files.

You will also need the Getopt::Gen perl module,
which should be available from wherever you acquired
these sources.


=head1 KNOWN BUGS

Looks like there is a memory leak somewhere...

=begin comment text

This package is obsolete and deprecated.
Potential users are strongly encouraged to switch to
MorphConsole, available at ... ?

This will cease being a comment as soon as
MorphConsole has matured a bit.

=end comment text

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Development of this package was supported by the project
'Kollokationen im Wörterbuch'
("collocations in the dictionary", http://www.bbaw.de/forschung/kollokationen )
in association with the project
'Digitales Wörterbuch der deutschen Sprache des 20. Jahrhunderts (DWDS)'
("digital dictionary of the German language of the 20th century", http://www.dwds.de )
at the Berlin-Brandenburgische Akademie der Wissenschaften ( http://www.bbaw.de )
with funding from
the Alexander von Humboldt Stiftung ( http://www.avh.de )
and from the Zukunftsinvestitionsprogramm of the
German federal government.

I am grateful to Christiane Fellbaum, Alexander Geyken,
Thomas Hanneforth, Gerald Neumann, Edmund Pohl, Alexey Sokirko,
and others for offering useful insights in the course of development
of this package.

Thomas Hanneforth wrote and maintains the libFSM C++ library
for finite-state device operations used by the
class-based HMM tagger / disambiguator, without which this
package could not have been built.

Alexander Geyken and Thomas Hanneforth developed the
rule-based morphological analysis system for German
which was used in the development and testing of the
class-based HMM tagger / disambiguator.

=head1 AUTHOR

Bryan Jurish E<lt>moocow@ling.uni-potsdam.deE<gt>

=cut
